# Go API client for openapi

<div>
  <h2>About the Beta</h2>
  <p>This beta release allows you to preview ABS Data API before it is released in its final form and gives you the opportunity to provide the ABS with feedback as we work to enhance the service.</p>
  <p>We will continue to load new datasets and update existing datasets as soon as possible after embargo on the data is lifted. However, <b>data in this beta release may not necessarily be the most up to date.</b> For the most up to date information visit the <a href=\"https://www.abs.gov.au/\">ABS website</a>.</p>
  <p>Availability of the ABS Data API (Beta) is not guaranteed. The service may be subject to change.</p>
  <p>You can contact the ABS APIs team at <a href=\"mailto:api.data@abs.gov.au\">api.data@abs.gov.au</a>. Please let us know any feedback or issues you have. You can request to join our register of interest to be notified of any changes in the API.  The <a href=\"https://www.abs.gov.au/websitedbs/D3310114.nsf/Home/Privacy?opendocument#from-banner=GB\" target=\"_blank\">ABS privacy policy</a> outlines how the ABS handles any personal information that you provide to us.</p>
</div>
<div>
  <h2>Key Information</h2>
  <p>The ABS Data REST API allows you to request ABS statistics including detailed economic, social and Census data.  Filter your query to return the data and metadata you are interested in.</p>
  <p>The ABS Data API uses the Statistical Data and Metadata Exchange (SDMX) standard.  Data is available in XML, JSON and CSV.</p>
</div>


## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 0.2.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Generator version: 7.11.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```sh
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```go
import openapi "github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```go
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `openapi.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), openapi.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `openapi.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), openapi.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `openapi.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `openapi.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), openapi.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), openapi.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://data.api.abs.gov.au*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*GetDataAPI* | [**GetData**](docs/GetDataAPI.md#getdata) | **Get** /rest/data/{dataflowIdentifier}/{dataKey} | Get data from a dataflow in XML, JSON or CSV.
*GetMetadataAPI* | [**GetLatestStructure**](docs/GetMetadataAPI.md#getlateststructure) | **Get** /rest/{structureType}/{agencyId}/{structureId} | Get the latest structure of a specific type, for a given agency and structure id.
*GetMetadataAPI* | [**GetStructures**](docs/GetMetadataAPI.md#getstructures) | **Get** /rest/{structureType}/{agencyId}/{structureId}/{structureVersion} | Get a specific version of a structure of a specific type, for a given agency and structure id.
*GetMetadataAPI* | [**GetStructuresByAgencyId**](docs/GetMetadataAPI.md#getstructuresbyagencyid) | **Get** /rest/{structureType}/{agencyId} | Get all structures of a specific type.


## Documentation For Models



## Documentation For Authorization

Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author

api.data@abs.gov.au

